# Seasons in lakes

Code repository for a collaborative analysis of multiple metrics of seasonality in lakes.

## Repository structure

-   `01a_Raw_data`: Raw data files, not yet formatted for this analysis. This is not currently used because we pull FCR data directly from EDI

-   `01b_Processed_data`: Processed data (e.g., daily means, calculated Schmidt stability)

-   `02a_Data processing`: Scripts for data processing (used to create the processed data files in `01b_Processed_data`)

-   `02b_Data_analysis`: Data analysis scripts to generate figures and results for the manuscript

-   `03a_Figures`: Figures generated by scripts in `02b_Data_analysis`. To keep the repo manageable, this folder is not pushed to GitHub

-   `03b_Illustrator_files`: Illustrator files for conceptual figure generation

## To contribute to this analysis

We would love to have figures generated for as many lakes as possible! If you are interested in contributing, the workflow I would suggest is:

1.  Clone this repo.
2.  Add raw data files to `01a_Raw_data`
3.  Add a script to `02a_Data processing` to format your raw data for the figure. Processed data files should then be output to `01b_Processed_data.`
    -   For discrete data, the output format has four columns (see `../01b_Processed_data/Solstice.csv` for an example)

        -   `start`: start date of this "season" as numeric day of year

        -   `end`: end date of this season as numeric day of year

        -   `Season`: season name (e.g., "summer", "stratified")

        -   `Method`: method name (i.e., y-axis label in figure 3)

        -   Note that it is okay to have multiple seasons of the same name in one file, for example if there are multiple separate stratified periods

    -   For continuous data, the output format has three columns:

        -   `yday`: day of year (numeric)

        -   `Variable`: Variable name

        -   `Value`: Variable value
4.  Make a copy of `02b_Data_analysis/Plot.Rmd` and modify the script to use your own data
5.  Create a pull request to contribute your changes

I (Abby) am very happy to help with all steps of this workflow! Please just let me know how I can help. Thanks!
